Ha ha. 4321. Boom. Thank you. Thanks for doing this, man. Really appreciate it. You're welcome. Very good to meet you. Nice to meet you, too. And thanks for not lighting this place on fire. You're welcome. Coming later. How does one just in the middle of doing all the things you do, create cars, Rockets, all the stuff you're doing constantly innovating decides to make flamethrower. Where do you have time for that? We didn't put a lot of time into the flamethrower. This was an off the cuff thing, sort of like it's sort of sort of a hobby company called The Boring Company, which started out as a joke. And we decided to make it real and dig a tunnel under La. And then other people asked us to dig tunnels. So we said yes in a few cases. And then we have a merchandise section that only has one piece of merchandise at a time. And we started off with a cap, and there was only one thing. It was just boringcompany ComCap or hat. That's it. And then we sold the hats, limited edition. It just said The Boring Company. And then I'm a big fan of Space Bowls, the movie. And in Space Bowls, Yogurt goes through the merchandising section and they have a flamethrower in the merchandising section of Spaceballs. The kids love that one. When he pulls up the plane, thrower it's like we should do a flamethrower. Does anybody tell you? No. Does anybody go to Elon? Maybe for yourself. But selling a flamethrower, the Liabilities, all the people you're selling this device to, what kind of unhinged people are going to be buying a flamethrower in the first place? Do we really want to connect ourselves to all these potential arsonists? Yeah. It's a terrible idea. I said, don't buy this flamethrower. Don't buy it. That's what I said. But still, people bought it. There's nothing I can do to stop them. I said, don't buy it. It's a bad idea. How many did you make? It's dangerous. It's wrong. Don't buy it. Still, people bought it. I just couldn't stop them. How many did you make? 20,000. And they're all gone. I think four days. They sold out in four days. Are you going to do another run? No. No, that's it. Yes. I said we did 50,000 hats. That was a million dollars, and we'll sell something for 10 million. And that was 20,000 flamethrowers at $500 each. They went fast. How do you have the time to do that, though? I mean, I understand that it's not a big deal in terms of all the other things that you do, but how do you have time to do anything? I just don't understand your time management skills. I mean, I didn't spend much time on this flamethrower. I mean, to be totally Frank, it's actually just a roofing torch with an air rifle cover. It's not a real flamethrower, which is why it says not a flamethrower. That's why? We were very clear this is not actually a flamethrower. And also we're told that various countries would ban shipping of it, but they would ban flamethrowers. So to solve this problem for all the customs agencies, we labeled it not a flamethrower. Did it work? Is it effective? I don't know. I think so far, yes. You said you cannot ship a flamethrower, but you do so many different things. Forget about the flamethrower. How do you do all that other shit? How does one decide to fix La traffic by drilling holes in the ground? And who do you even approach with that when you have this idea? Who do you talk to about that? I'm not saying it's going to be successful, or so it's like asserting that it's going to be successful. But so far I've lived in La for 16 years, and the traffic has always been terrible. And so I don't see any other ideas for improving the traffic. So in desperation, we're going to take a tunnel and maybe that tunnel will be successful and maybe it won't. I'm listening. Yeah. I'm not trying to convince you it's going to work. And are the people or anyone but you are starting this, though. This is actually a project you're starting to implement, right? Yeah. No, we've done about a mile. It's quite long. It takes a long time to walk it. Yeah. Now when you're doing this, what is the ultimate plan? The ultimate plan is to have these in major cities and anywhere there's mass congestion and just try it out in La first. Yeah, it's in La because I mostly live in La. That's the reason it's a terrible place to dig tunnels. This is one of the worst places to dig tunnels because mostly because of the paperwork. People think it's like, what about seismic? It's like actually tunnels are very safe in earthquakes. Why is that? Earthquakes are essentially a surface phenomenon. It's like waves on the ocean. So if there's a storm, you want to be in a submarine. So being in tunnels like being a submarine. Now, the way the tunnels construct is it's constructed out of these interlocking segments, kind of like a snake. It's sort of like a snake exoskeleton with double seals. And so even when the ground moves, the tunnel actually is able to shift along with the ground like an underground snake, and it doesn't crack or break. It's extremely unlikely that both seals would be broken. And it's capable of taking five atmospheres of pressure. It's waterproof, methane proof or gas proof of any kind and meets all California seismic requirements. So when you have this idea, who do you bring this to? I'm not sure what you mean by that. Well, you're implementing it, so you're digging holes in the ground. You have to bring it to someone that lets you do it. Yeah. So there were some engineers from SpaceX who thought it would be cool to do this and the guy who runs it like Day To Day, Steve Davis, he's a longtime SpaceX engineer. He's great. So Steve was like, I'd like to help make this happen. I was like, Cool. So we started off with digging a hole in the ground. It's got like a permit for a pit. Big pit and dug a big pit. And you have to tell them what the pits for. Or you just say, hey, we just want to dig a hole. Nice. Fill out this form. That's it. Yeah, it was a pit in our parking lot. But do you have to give them some sort of a blueprint for your ultimate idea? And do they have to approve it? How does that work now? We just started off with a pit, okay, big pit because they don't really care about the existential nature of a pit. You just say, like, I don't want a pit, right? And it's all in the ground. So then we got the permit for the pit and we dug the pit and we dug it in like three days. Two, three days, actually, I think 48 hours, something like that. Because Eric Car said he was coming by. He was going to attend the Hyperloop competition, which is like a student competition we have for who can make the fastest pod in the Hyper loop. And the finals are going to be on Sunday afternoon. And so Eric was coming by on Sunday afternoon was like, you know, we should take this pit and then like, show Eric. So it was like Friday morning and then. Yeah, so it was about a little over 40 hours later, we dug the pit. It was like, we're in 24/7 or 24, 40 straight hours, something like that. And Douglas big pit and we're like showed Eric the pit. Obviously it's just a pit. But hey, hold the ground is better than no holding the ground. And what do you tell me about this pit? Did you say this is the beginning of this idea? Yes. We're going to build tunnels under La to help funnel traffic better. And they just go, okay, we've joked around about this in the podcast before. They're like, what other person can go to the people that run the city and go, hey, we're going to take some holes on the ground and put some tunnels in there. And they go, oh, yeah, okay. Nothing wrong with a hole in the ground. People dig holes in the ground all the time. But my question is, I know how much time you must be spending on your Tesla factory. I know how much time you must be spending on SpaceX, and yet you still have time to dig holes under the ground in La and come up with these ideas and then implement them. I got a million ideas. I'm sure you do. There's no shortage of that. Yeah. I just don't know how you manage your time. I don't understand it. It doesn't even seem humanly possible. Basically, I think people don't totally understand what I do with my time. They think like I'm a business guy or something like that. Like my Wikipedia page says Business magnet. What would you call yourself? Business magnet? Can someone please change my Wikipedia page to magnet? They'll change it right now. It's probably already changed. It's locked, so somebody has to be able to unlock it and change it to magnet. I want to be a magnet. No, I do engineering and manufacturing and that kind of thing. That's like 80% more of my time ideas and then the implementation of those ideas. That's like hardcore engineering. Like designing things. Right? Structural, mechanical, electrical, software, user interface engineering, aerospace engineering. But you must understand, there's not a whole lot of human beings like you. You know that, right? So you're in oddities. Yes. To chimps like me. We're all chimps. Yeah, we are. We're one notch above a chimp. Some of us are a little more confused. When I watch you doing all these things, I'm like, how does this motherfucker have all this time and all this energy and all these ideas and then people just let them do these things because I'm an alien? That's what I've speculated. Yeah. I'm on record saying this in the past. I wonder it's true if there was one. I was like, if there was maybe an intelligent being that we created, like some AI creature that's superior to people, maybe just hang around with us for a little while like you've been doing and then fix a bunch of shit. Maybe that's the way I might have some mutation or something like that. You might. Do you think you do? Probably. Do you wonder around normal people you're like, what's up with these boring, dumb motherfuckers ever? Not bad for a human, but I think we will not be able to hold a candle to AI. You scared the shit out of me. When you talk about AI between you and Sam Harris, I didn't even consider it until I had a podcast with Sam once. He made me shit my pants. Talking about AI, I realized like, oh, well, this is a Genie that once it's out of the bottle, you're never getting it back in. That's true. There was a video that you tweeted about one of those Boston Dynamic robots and you're like, in the future, it will be moving so fast you can't see it without a strobe light. Yeah, you could probably do that right now. And no one's really paying attention too much other than people like you or people that are really obsessed with technology. All these things are happening and these robots are. Did you see the one where PETA put out statement that you shouldn't kick robots? It's probably not wise for retribution. Their memory is very good. I bet it's really good. It's really good. I bet it is. Yes. And getting better every day. It's really good. Are you honestly legitimately concerned about this? Is like AI one of your main worries in regards to the future? Yes. It's less of a worry than it used to be, mostly due to taking more of a fatalistic attitude. So you used to have more hope and you gave up some of it. And now you don't worry as much about AI you're like. This is just what it is, pretty much. It's not necessarily bad. It's definitely going to be outside of human control. Not necessarily bad, right? Yeah, it's not necessarily bad. It's just outside of human control. Now, the thing that's going to be tricky here is that it's going to be very tempting to use AI as a weapon. It can be very tempting. In fact, it will be used as a weapon. The onramp to serious AI. The danger is going to be more humans using it against each other. I think most likely that will be the danger. How far do you think we are from something that can make its own mind up whether or not something is ethically or morally correct, or whether or not it wants to do something, or whether or not it wants to improve itself, or whether or not it wants to protect itself from people or from other AI? How far away from something that's really, truly sentient? Well, you could argue about any group of people. A company is essentially a cybernetic collective of people and machines. That's what a company is. And then there are different levels of complexity in the way these companies are formed. And then there are sort of like a collective AI in the Google sort of search, Google search, where we're all sort of plugged in as nodes on the network, like leaves on a big tree. And we're all feeding this network without questions and answers. We're all collectively programming. And Google plus the older humans that connect to it are one giant cybernetic collective. This is also true of Facebook and Twitter and Instagram and all these social networks. They're giant Sabinetic collective humans and electronics, all interfacing and constantly now constantly connected? Yes, constantly. One of the things that I've been thinking about a lot over the last few years is that one of the things that drives a lot of people crazy is how many people are obsessed with materialism and getting the latest greatest thing. And I wonder how much of that is. A lot of it is most certainly fueling technology and innovation, and it almost seems like it's built into us to what we like and what we want, that we're fueling this thing that's constantly around us all the time. And it doesn't seem possible that people are going to pump the brakes. It doesn't seem possible at this stage. We're constantly expecting the newest cell phone, the latest Tesla update, the newest MacBook Pro. Everything has to be newer and better, and that's going to lead to some incredible point. And it seems like it's built into us. It almost seems like it's an instinct that we're working towards this, that we like. It our job. Just like the ants build the Ant Hill. Our job is to somehow the fuel this. Yes. I made this comment some years ago, but it feels like we are the biological bootloader for AI. Effectively, we are building it, and then we're building progressively greater intelligence. And the percentage of intelligence that is not human is increasing, and eventually we will represent a very small percentage of intelligence. But the AI is informed, strangely, by the human limbic system, in large part our idrit Lodge. How so? We mentioned all those things, the sort of primal drives. It's all things that we like and hate and fear. They're all there on the Internet. They're a projection of our limbic system. Sure. No, it makes sense thinking of corporations and just thinking of just human beings communicating online through these social media networks as some sort of an organism. That's a combination. It's a combination of electronics and biology. Yeah. In some measure, like the success of these online systems is sort of a function of how much limbic resonance they're able to achieve with people. The more limit resonance, the more engagement. Whereas one of the reasons why probably Instagram is more enticing than Twitter. Limbic resonance. Yeah. You get more images, more video, tweaking your system more. Yes. Do you worry about or wonder, in fact, about what the next step is? A lot of people didn't see Twitter coming. That communicated with 140 characters or 280 now would be a thing that people would be interested in. Like it's going to become more connected to us, right? Yes. Things are getting more and more connected. They're at this point constrained by bandwidth. Our input output is slow, particularly output output got worse with thumbs. We used to have input with ten fingers. Now we have thumbs, but images are just there a way of communicating at high bandwidth. You take pictures and you send pictures to people that communicates far more information than you can communicate with your thumbs. So what happened with you, where you decided or you took on a more fatalistic attitude? Like, was there any specific thing or was it just the inevitability of our future? I tried to convince people to slow down AI, to regulate AI. This was futile. I tried for years. This seems nobody seen in a movie. Nobody robots take over and you're freaking me out. Nobody listened. Nobody listened. No one. Are people more inclined to listen today? It seems like an issue that's brought up more often over the last few years than it was maybe 510 years ago. It seems like science fiction. Maybe they will. So far they haven't. I think people don't like normally the way that regulations work is very slow. Very slow indeed. So usually I'll be something, some new technology. It will cause damage or death. There will be an outcry. There will be investigation. Years will pass. There will be some sort of insight committee. There will be rulemaking, then there will be oversight, eventually, regulations. This all takes many years. This is the normal course of things. If you look at, say, automotive regulations, how long did it take for seat belts to be implemented? To be required? The auto industry fought seat belts, I think, for more than a decade. Successfully fought any regulations on seat belts, even though the numbers were extremely obvious. If you had a seatbelt on, you would be far less likely to die or be seriously injured. Unequivocal in the industry fought this for years, successfully. Eventually, after many people died, regulators insisted on seatbelts. This time frame is not relevant to AI. You can't take ten years from the point of which is dangerous. It's too late, and you feel like this is decades away or years away from being too late. If you have this fatalistic attitude and you feel like it's going, we're in almost like a doomsday countdown. It's not necessarily a doomsday countdown. It's an out of control countdown. Out of control. Yeah. People call it the singularity, and that's probably the way you think about it. Singularity. It's hard to predict, like a black hole, what happens past the event horizon. Right. So once it's implemented, it's very different because it will change out of bundle. What's going to happen and it will be able to improve itself. Yes. That's where it gets spooky. Right. The idea that it can do thousands of years of innovation, we're very, very quickly. Yeah. And then we'll be just ridiculous. Ridiculous. We will be like this ridiculous biological shitting, pissing thing, trying to stop the gods. No, stop. We like living with a finite lifespan and watching Norman Rockwall paintings. It could be terrible and it could be great. It's not clear. Right. But one thing is for sure, we will not control it. Do you think that it's likely that we will merge somehow or another with this sort of technology and it'll augment what we are now? Or do you think it will replace us? Well, that's the scenario. The merge scenario with AI is the one that seems like probably the best for us. Yes. If you can't beat it, join it. Yeah. So from a long term existential standpoint, that's like, the purpose of Neuralink is to create a high bandwidth interface to the brain such that we can be symbiotic with AI because we have a bandwidth problem. You just can't communicate through openers is too slow. And Where's neural link at? Right now, I think we'll have something interesting to announce in a few months. That's at least an order of magnitude better than anything else, I think. Better than probably anyone thinks it's possible. How much can you talk about that right now? I don't want to drop the gun on that. But what's, like the ultimate. What's the idea behind it? What are you trying to accomplish with it? What would you like? Best case scenario? I think best case scenario, we effectively merge with AI, where AI serves as a tertiary cognition layer, where we've got the limbic system, kind of the primitive brain, essentially you've got the cortex. So you're currently in a symbiotic relationship. Your cortex and limbic system are in a symbiotic relationship. And generally people like their cortex, and they like their limbic system. I haven't met anyone who wants to delete their limit system or delete their cortex. Everybody seems to like both. And the cortex is mostly in service to the limit system. People may think that the thinking part of themselves is in charge, but it's mostly their limbic system that's in charge. And the cortex is trying to make the limvic system happy. That's what most of that computing power is towards. How can I make the limbic system happy? That's what I was trying to do. Now, if we do have a third layer, which is the AI extension of yourself, that is also symbiotic, and there's enough bandwidth between the cortex and the AI extension of yourself such that the AI doesn't de facto separate, then that could be a good outcome. That could be quite a positive outcome for the future. So instead of replacing us, it will radically change our capabilities. Yes. It will enable anyone who wants to have superhuman cognition, anyone who wants this is not a matter of earning power, because your earning power would be vastly greater after you do it. So it's just like anyone who wants can just do it in theory. That's the theory. If that's the case, then and let's say billions of people do it, then the outcome for humanity will be the sum of human will, the sum of billions of people's desire for the future. Billions of people with enhanced cognitive ability. Radically enhanced, yes. Which would be how much different than people today if you had to explain it to a person who didn't really understand what you're saying? How much different are you talking about? When you say radically improved, what do you mean? You mean mind reading? It would be difficult to really appreciate the difference. How much smarter are you with a phone or computer than without it's? Your vastly smarter, actually. You can answer any question. If you connect to the Internet, you can answer any question pretty much instantly. Any calculation that your phone's memory is essentially perfect. You can remember flawlessly. Your phone can remember videos, pictures, everything perfectly. Your phone is already an extension of you. You're already a Cyborg. Most people don't realize they are already a Cyborg. That phone is an extension of yourself. It's just that the data rate at which the communication rate between you and the cybernetic extension of yourself, that is your phone and computer is slow. It's very slow. It's like a tiny straw of information flow between your biological self and your digital self. And we need to make that tiny straw like a giant river. Huge high bandwidth interface interface problem. Data rate problem. Solve the data rate problem. Then I think I think we hang on to human machines and Biosis through the long term. And then people may decide that they want to retain the biological self or not. I think they'll probably choose to retain the biological self versus some sort of Ray Kurzweil scenario where they download themselves into a computer. You will be essentially snapshotted into a computer at any time. If your biological self dies, you could just probably just upload into a new unit. Literally. Pass that whiskey. We're getting crazy over here. This is getting ridiculous. Down the rabbit hole. Grab that sucker. Give me some of that. This is too freaky. See if I've been thinking about this for a long time, by the way, I believe you have if I was talking to one. Cheers, by the way. Cheers. Yeah. This is a great whiskey. Thank you. I know where this came from. Who brought this to us? Trying to remember. Somebody gave it to us. Old camp, whoever it was. Thanks. Yeah, it is good. This is just inevitable again, going back to when you decided to have this fatalistic viewpoint. So you tried to warn people. You talked about this pretty extensively. I've read several interviews where you talked about this, and then you just sort of just said, okay, it just is. And in a way, by communicating the potential fee for sure, you're getting the warning out to some people. I was really going on the warning quite a lot. I was wanting everyone I could. You've met with Obama, and just for one reason, he talked about AI. Yes. And what did he say? So what about Hillary worry about her first? No, he listened. He certainly listened. I met with Congress. I was at a meeting of all 50 governors and talked about just AI danger. And I talked to everyone I could. No one seemed to realize where this was going. Is it that or do they just assume that someone smarter than them is already taking care of it? Because when people hear about something like AI, it's almost abstract. It's almost like it's so hard to wrap your head around it. By the time it already happens, it'll be too late. Yeah. I think they didn't quite understand it or didn't think it was near term or not sure what to do about it. I said an obvious thing to do is to just establish government committee to gain insight before you oversight. Before you do make regulations, try to understand what's going on. And then if you have an insight committee, once they learn what's going on, get up to speed. Then they can make maybe some rules or propose some rules. And that would be probably a safer way to go about things. I know that it's probably something that the government's supposed to handle. But it seems like I don't want the government to handle this. Who do you want to have? I want you to handle it. Oh, Jeez. Yeah. I feel like you're the one who could ring the Bell better. Because if Mike Pence starts talking about AI, I'm like, Shut up, bitch. You don't know anything about AI. Come on, man. He doesn't know what he's talking about. But I don't have the power to regulate other companies. Maybe companies could agree. Maybe there could be some sort of. We have agreements where you're not supposed to dump toxic waste into the ocean. You're not supposed to do certain things that could be terribly damaging even though they'd be profitable. Maybe this is one of those things. Maybe you should realize that you can't hit the switch on something that's going to be able to think for itself and make up its own mind as to whether or not it wants to survive or not and whether or not it thinks you're a threat and whether or not it thinks you're useless. Like, why do I keep this dumb, finite life form alive? Why keep this thing around? It's just stupid. It just keeps polluting everything, shitting, everywhere it goes, lighting everything on fire and shooting each other. Why would I keep this stupid thing alive? Because sometimes it makes good music. Sometimes it makes great movies, sometimes it makes beautiful art. And sometimes it's cool to hang out with all those reasons. Yeah, for us, those are great reasons. But for anything objective, standing outside like, oh, this is definitely a flawed system. This is like, if you went to the jungle and you watch these chimps engage in warfare and beat each other with me, they're fucking real mean. Fucking mean. They're real mean. I saw that movie Chimpanzee. I thought it was going to be like some Disney thing. I was like, Cow. What movie was that called? Chimpanzee. Is it a documentary? Yeah, it's kind of like a documentary. And I was like, Damn, these chimps are mean. They're mean. Yeah, they're cruel. Yeah, they're calculated. Yeah, they sneak up on each other. I didn't realize chimps did calculated cruelty. I left that meeting kind of thinking, this is dark, right? Well, we know better because we've advanced. But if we hadn't, we'd be like, Man, I don't want to fucking live in a house. I like the chimpaz, bro. Chimp ways to go. This is it, man. Chimp life right now, but we in a way to the AI might be like, those chimps. I'm like, These stupid fucks launching missiles out of drones and shooting each other underwater like we're crazy. We got torpedoes, submarines, and fucking airplanes that drop nuclear bombs indiscriminately on cities. We're assholes. Yeah, they might go, Why are they doing this? It might like, look at our politics. Look at what we do in terms of our food system. What kind of food. We force down each other's throats and they might go. These people are crazy. They don't even look out for themselves. I don't know. How much do we think about chimps? Not much. Very little. These chimps are at war. It's like groups of chimps just attack each other and they kill each other. They torture each other. It's pretty bad. They Hunt monkeys. But this is probably the most but, I mean, when was the last time you talked about chimps? Me? Yeah, all the time. You do? Unfortunately, people are laughing right now. Yes, constantly. I'm obsessed. I saw that David Attenborough documentary on chimps when they were eating those Columbus monkeys and ripping them apart. I saw that many, many years ago. Just changed how I go. Oh, this is why people are so crazy. We came from that thing. Yeah, exactly. And there's the bonobos thing. They got, like, better philosophy. Yeah. They're like swingers. Yeah, they really are. They seem to be way more even than us, way more civilized. They just seem to resolve everything with sex. Yes. The only rules they have is the mom won't bang the son. That's it. Okay. That's it. Mom won't bang your sons. They're good women. Yeah, good women in the bonobo community. Everybody else is banging it out. Yeah. I haven't seen the bonobo movie. Well, they're disturbing. Just at a Zoo. You have bonobos at the Zoo. They're just constantly going. Constantly fucking wouldn't stop. Yeah. And they don't care. Gay, straight, whatever. Let's just fuck. I haven't seen bonobos at the Zoo. It's probably, like, not in the PG section. I don't think they have them at many zoos. We've looked at them before. It's probably pretty awkward. I think that's the thing. They like to keep regular chimps at zoos because bonobos are just always jacking off. What's that they have in San Diego. Really interesting. Probably separate them. How many other in a cage. It's going to be pretty intense. Yeah. We're a weird thing. And I've often wondered whether or not our ultimate goal is to give birth to some new thing. And that's why we're so obsessed with technology, because it's not like this technology is really I mean, it's certainly enhancing our lives to in a certain way. But ultimately, is it making people happier right now? Most technology, I would say no. In fact, you and I were talking about social media before this, about just not having Instagram on your phone and not dealing. You feel better? Yes. I think one of the issues with social media, it's been pointed out by many people is that I think maybe particularly Instagram people look like they have a much better life than they really do. Right. By design. Yeah. People are posting pictures of when they're really happy. They're modifying those pictures to be better looking. Even if they're not modifying the pictures, they're at least selecting the pictures for the best lighting, the best angle. So people basically seem way better looking than they really are. Right. And they're way happier seeming than they really are. So if you look at everyone on Instagram, you might think, man, there are all these happy, beautiful people, and I'm not that good looking and I'm not happy. So I'm a suck, and that's going to make you feel sad. So when in fact those people you think are super happy, actually not that happy. Some of them are really depressed. They're very sad. Some of the happiest among people, actually some of the saddest people in reality. And nobody looks good all the time. Doesn't matter who you are. No, it's not even something you should want. Why do you want to look great all the time? Yeah, exactly. So I think things like that can make people quite sad just by comparison, because people generally think of themselves relative to others. We are constantly rebates lining our expectations. And you can see this, that if you watch some show, like naked and Afraid, or if you just go and try living in the woods by yourself for a while, civilization is quite great. People want to come back to civilization pretty fast on naked and afraid. Wasn't that a thorough quote in comparison? Is the thief of joy? Yeah, well, happiness is reality minus expectations. That's great, too. But the comparison is the thief of joy really holds true to people. Is it Theodore Roosevelt? Roosevelt fascinating when you're thinking about Instagram, because what essentially Instagram is for a lot of people is you're giving them the opportunity to be their own PR agent, and they always go towards the Glamorous. And when anybody does show hashtag, no filter, they really do do that. Like, oh, you're so brave. Look at you. No makeup. They look good anyway. You look great. What are you doing? Oh, my God, you don't have makeup on. You still look hot as fuck. You know what you're doing? I know what you're doing, too. They're letting you know. And then they're feeding off that comment section, just sitting there like it's a fresh stream of love. Like you're getting right up to the sources. It comes out of the Earth and you're sucking that water emojis. Yeah. My concern is not so much what Instagram is that I didn't think that people had the need for this or the expectation for some sort of technology that allows them to constantly get love and adulation from strangers and comments and this ability to project this sort of distorted version of who you really are. But I worry about where it goes. Like, what's the next one? What's the next one? Where is it? Is it going to be augmented, some sort of a weird augmented or virtual sort of Instagram type situation where you're not going to want to live in this real world. You're going to want to interface with this sort of world that you've created through your social media page. Some next level thing. Yeah. Go live in the simulation. Yeah. Some ready player one type shit. That's real. We have that HTC Vive here, and I've only done it a couple of times, quite honestly, because it kind of freaks me out. Sure. My kids fucking love it, man. They love it. They love playing these weirdo games and walking around with that headset on. But part of me watching them do it goes, wow, I wonder if this is like the precursor. Just sort of like if you look at that phone that Gordon Gecko had on the beach. And then you compare the cell phone. Yeah. You compare that to, like, a Galaxy Note Nine. How the fuck did that become? That right. And I wonder, when I see this HTC Vive, I'm like, what is that thing going to be ten years from now when we're making fun of what it is now? How ingrained and how connected and interconnected is this technology going to be in our life? It will be at some point, indistinguishable from reality. We'll lose this. We'll lose this. Like, you and I are just looking at each other through our eyes. I see. You see me. I think. I hope you think so. I think you probably have regular eyes. This could be some simulation. It could. Do you entertain that? Well, the argument for the simulation, I think, is quite strong. Because if you assume any improvements at all over time, any improvements? 1%. Just extend the time frame. Make it 1000 years. A million years. The universe is 13.8 billion years old. Civilization, if you counted. If you're very generous. Civilization is maybe seven or 8000 years old. If you counted from the first writing, there's nothing there's nothing. So if you assume any rate of improvement at all, then games will be indistinguishable from reality or civilization will end. One of those two things will occur. That's what we are most likely in a simulation. Or we're on our way to one. Right? Just because we exist, we could most certainly be on the road. We could be on the road to that, right? It doesn't mean it has to be inBased reality. We could be here now on our way to the road or on our way to the destination, where this can never happen again. Where we are completely ingrained in some sort of an artificial technology or some sort of a symbiotic relationship with the Internet or the next level of sharing information. But right now, we're not there yet. That's possible too, right? It's possible that a simulation is one day going to be inevitable. That we are going to have something that's indistinguishable from regular reality. But maybe we're not there yet. That's also possible. We're not quite there yet. This is real. When I touched up. Very real. Maybe that's why everybody's, like, into, like, Mason jars and shit. Mason suede shoes. People are into, like, craft restaurants. And they want raw wood. Everyone wants to see metal. It seems like people are, like, longing towards some weird log cabin type nostalgia reality. Yeah. Like holding on. Like clinging to dragging their nails through the mud. Like, don't take me yet. Yes. But then people go get a Mason jar with a wine stem or a handle that's dark. Make me lose faith in humanity. Wine stem and a handle. They have those? Yes. Oh, those dirty people. That's just assholes. That's why people make pet rocks rough, right? Some people are just assholes to take advantage of our generous nature. Which was made with Weinstein, made with handle. They made it that way. They welded it onto the that would be fine if there was glued it on or something was made that way. White trash chic. Oh, this is disgusting. Look at this. This is terrible. Yeah. That's like fake breasts that are designed to be hard. Like fake breasts from the 60s. It's like if you really long for the ones with ripples. Here we go. That's almost what that is. Yeah. What are you going to do, man? Something to stop certain terrible ideas from propagating. Yeah. Anyway, I don't want to sound like things are too dark, because I think you kind of have to be optimistic about the future. There's no point in being pessimistic. Just too negative. It doesn't help. My theory is like, you'd rather be optimistic. I'd rather be optimistic and wrong than pessimistic and right. Right, at least. Or on that side. Right? Yeah. Because if you're pessimistic, it's coming to miserable. Yeah. Nobody wants to be around you anyway. If it's the end of the world. I fucking told you, Bru. Yeah. The world is ending. Enjoy the journey. Right. If you really want to get morose, it is what it is for all of us anyway. We're all going to go unless something changes. Yeah. I mean, ultimately, even if we just sort of existed as humans forever, eventually that would be like the heat death of the universe. It's only in years from now. Right? Even if we get it past the sun, if we figure out a way past the sun running out of juice, eventually it's going to end. It's just a question of when. Right. So it really is all about the journey or transcendence from whatever we are now to something that doesn't worry about death. The universe as we know it will dissipate into a fine mist of cold nothingness. Eventually, then someone's going to bottle it and put a fragrance to it, sell it to French people in another dimension. It's just a very long time. I think it's really just about. How can we make it last longer? Are you a proponent of the multi universe theory? Do you believe that there are many, many universes and that even if this one fades out, that there's other ones that are starting fresh right now and there's an infinite number of them, they're just constantly in this never ending cycle of birth and death. I think most likely this is just about probability. There are many simulations. These simulations are we might as well call them reality, or you could call them multiverse. These simulations you believe are created like someone has manifested. They're running on the substrate. That substrate is probably boring. Boring? How so? Well, when we create a simulation like a game or a movie, it's a distillation of what's interesting about life. It takes a year to shoot an action movie and then that's all to solve down into two or 3 hours. So let me tell you, see an action movie being filmed, it's freaking boring. Super boring. There's like, lots of takes. Everything's in a green screen. Looks pretty goofy, doesn't look cool. But once you add the CGI and have great editing, it's amazing. I think most likely if we're a simulation, it's really boring outside the simulation. Because why would you make simulation that's boring? Because it makes simulation way more interesting than based reality. That is, if this right now is a simulation. Yes. And ultimately, inevitably, as long as we don't die or get hit by a meteor, we're going to create some sort of simulation. If we continue on the same technological path we're on right now. Yes, but we might not be there yet. So it might not be a simulation here, but it most likely is you feel other places, this notion of place or where is flawed. Yes, flawed version that's made by Valve. And it's really Valve that made it. Htc did the hardware, but it's really a Valve thing. Makers of Half Life. Yes. Well, great company. Great company. When you're in that virtual reality, which is only going to get better, where are you? Where are you? Really? Right. You aren't anywhere. Well, where are you in the computer? What defines where you are? Exactly right. It's your perception. Is it your perceptions or is it a scale that we have under your butt? You're right here. I've measured you. You're the same weight as you were when you left. Meanwhile, you're experiencing. Why do you think you're where you are right now? You might not be. I'll spark up a joint. If you keep talking, your manager is going to come in here. We might have to lock the door right now. You think you're in a studio in La? That's what I heard. You might be in a computer. Oh, listen, man, I think about this all the time. Yeah. I mean, it's unquestionable that one day that'll be the case. As long as we keep going, as long as nothing interrupts us. And if we start from scratch and we're single cell organisms all over again, and then millions and millions of years later, we become the next thing that is us with creativity and the ability to change its environment. It's going to keep monkeying with things until it figures out a way to change reality, to change. I mean, almost like punch a hole through what is this thing into what it wants it to be and create new things. And then those new things will intersect with other people's new things, and it will be this ultimate pathway of infinite ideas and expression all through technology. Yeah. And then we're going to wonder, like, why are we here? What are we doing? Let's find out. I think we should take the actions, the set of actions that are most likely to make the future better. Yes. Right. And then reevaluate those actions to make sure that it's true. Well, I think there's a movement to that in terms of, like, a social movement. I think some of it's misguided and some of it's exaggerated, and there's a lot of people that are fighting for their side out there. But it seems like the general trend of social awareness seems to be much more heightened now than has ever been at any other time in history because of our ability to express ourselves instantaneously to each other through Facebook or Twitter or what have you. And that the trend is to abandon preconceived notions, abandon prejudice, abandon discrimination, and promote kindness and happiness as much as possible. Look at this knife. Somebody gave it to me. Sorry. What the fuck did you do? My friend Donnie, he brought this with him, and it just stayed here. I have a real Samurai sword. I want to play with that. I know you're into weapons. That's from the 1500s. Samurai sword at the end of the table. Yeah, that's cool. I'll grab it. Hold on. Yeah, that's a legit Samurai sword from an actual Samurai from the 1500s. If you pull out that blade, that blade was made the old way where a master craftsman folded that metal and hammered it down over and over again over a long period of time and honed that blade into what it is now. What's crazy is that more than 500 years later, that thing is still pristine. I mean, whoever took care of that and pass it down to the next person who took care of it until it got to the podcast room, it's pretty fucking crazy. Yeah. One day someone is going to be looking at a Tesla like that. These fucking back doors, they pop up sideways like a Lamborghini. You should see what the Tesla can do. I'll show you afterwards. I've driven one. I love them. Yeah, but most people don't know what it can do in terms of ludicrous mode, in terms of driving super fast and irresponsibly on public roads. Is that what you're saying? When you call can do that? Yeah. What could it do that I need to know about? The Model X. Can do this, like, ballet thing to the Transa beer and Orchestra. It's pretty cool where it dances. Yes. Legitimately, like, moves around. Why would you program that into a car? Seemed like fun. That's what I get about you. That's what's weird. Like when you showed up here, you were all smiles and you pull out a fucking blowtorch and not a blowtorch. But I'm like, look at this, too. A flamethrower. Not a flamethrower. Definitely not a flamethrower. You're having fun this thing when you program a car to do a ballet dance, right? You're having fun. How do you have the time to do that? I don't understand why you're digging holes under the Earth and sending Rockets into space and powering people in Australia. How the fuck do you have time to make the car dance ballet? Well, I mean, in that case, there was some engineers at Tesla that said, what if we make this car dance and play music? I was like, that sounds great. Please do it. Let's try to get it done in time for Christmas. We did. Is there a concern about someone just losing their mind and do that in the highway? No, it won't do that. What if it's in bumper to bumper traffic? No, it won't do it. No, actually, it's an Easter egg. Oh, it's an Easter egg. Yeah. That's why people don't know about it. Putting people have the car. It could do lots of things. Lots of things. Once Reddit gets a hold of it, if you search for it on the Internet, you find out. But people don't know that they should even search for it. Well, they do now. Yes. There's so many things about the Model X and the Model S and the Model Three that people don't know about. We should probably do a video or something and explain it, because I have close friends of mine and I say, do you know the Call can do this? And they're like, Nope. Do you want to do a video, or do you like the fact that some people don't know? No, I think it's probably not. We should tell people. Yeah, probably. That would help your product. It's not like you don't sell enough of them. You sell almost too many of them. Right. I think a Tesla is the most fun thing you could possibly buy ever. That's what it's meant to be. Well, our goal is to make it's not exactly a car. It's actually a thing to maximize enjoyment. Make it maximum fun. Okay. Electronic, like big screen laptop, ridiculous speed handling all that stuff. Yeah. And we're going to put video games in it. You are? Yeah. Is that wise? Well, you won't be able to drive while you're playing the video game, but, for example, we're just putting the Atari emulator Rom emulator in it. So you'll be able to play Missile Command and Lunar Lander and a bunch of other things. Yeah, that sounds cool. It's pretty fun. I like that. Yeah. And we improve the interface of Missile Command because it's too hard with the old track bulb. So this is a touchscreen version of Missile Command. So you have a chance. You have an old car, don't you? Don't you have, like, an old Jaguar? Yeah. 61 Series, one E Type Dragon. I love cars. It's great. Yeah. I love old cars. Yeah. The only two gasoline cars I have are that and an old, like a Ford Model T that a friend of mine gave me that's my only two gasoline cars is the Ford Model T, all stock. Well, there's your car. Convertible. That is a gorgeous car. That's a good looking car. Yes. Is that yours? It's not mine. It's extremely close to mine. I don't have a French license plate on mine. It's a beautiful car. They nailed that. That's what mine looks like. It is mine. There's certain iconic shapes. Yes. And there's something about those cars, too. They're not as capable. Not nearly as capable as, like, a Tesla. But there's something really satisfying about the mechanical aspect of, like, feeling the steering and the grinding of the gears and the shifting. There's something about those. It's extremely satisfying, even though they're not that competent. Like, I have a 1993 Porsche nine six four. It's like a lightweight Rs America. It's not very fast. It's not like in comparison to a Tesla or anything like that. But the thing about it is it's mechanical, everything's. Like, it gives you this weird thrill, like you're on this clinky ride and there's all this feedback. There's something to that. Yeah, absolutely. My Etype is like, basically no electronics. So you like that, but you also like electronics. Yes. Like your Tesla soup. It's like the far end of electronics. Yes. Drives itself. It's driving itself better every day. Yeah. We're about to release the software that will enable you to just turn it on and it'll drive from highway on ramp to highway exit, do Lane changes overtake other cars to go from one interchange to the next. If you get on, say, the 405, get off 300 miles later and go through several highway interchanges and just overtake other cars and hook into the NAV system. And you're just meditating cars just traveling very it's kind of eerie. What did you think when you saw that video? That dude falling asleep behind the wheel? I'm sure you've seen it. The one in San Francisco is, like right outside of San Jose. Dude out cold like this. And the car is in bumper to bumper traffic moving along. Yeah, you've seen it, right? Yeah. We changed the software that's, I think, an old video. We changed software where if you don't touch the wheel, it will gradually slow down and put the emergency lights on and wake you up. Oh, that's hilarious. Yeah, that's hilarious. Can you choose what voice wakes you up? Well, it's sort of more of a sort of honks honks. You should be like, wake up, fuck face, endangering your fellow humans. We could gently wake you up with a sultry voice. That would be good. Like something with a Southern accent. Hey, wake up. Wake up sometimes. Hey, sweetie. Exactly. Why don't you wake up? You could pick your right. Pick what you want. Yeah. I choose the Australian girl for Siri. Yeah. I like her voice. Do you want it? Seductive favorite. I like Australian. Do you want it to be angry? It should be anything you want. Those Australian prison lady jeans. Now, when you program something like that in. Is this in response to a concern or is it your own? Yeah. Do you look at it and go, hey, they shouldn't just be able to fall asleep. Let's wake them up. Yeah, we like people falling asleep. We've got to do something about that, right? But when you first released it, you didn't consider it, right? You're just like, well, no one's going to just sleep. People fall asleep in cars all the time. All the time. And crash. Yeah. At least our car doesn't crash. That's better. It's better not to crash. Imagine if that guy falling asleep in a gasoline car. They do it all the time for sure. Yeah. They're crashing to somebody. Yeah. In fact, the thing that really got me to like, man, we better get water power going and get it out. There was a guy was in an early Tesla driving down the highway, and he fell asleep and he ran over a cyclist and killed him. And cycling like, man, if we had autopilot, when I run out of mind, a fallen asleep, but at least he wouldn't run over that cyclist. So how did you implement it? Like, did you just use cameras programmed with the system so that if it sees images, it slows down? And how much time do you give? Is the person who's in control of it allowed to program how fast it goes? Yes. You can program it to be more or less like, more conservative or more aggressive driver. And you can say what speed you want it to, what speed is. Okay, I know you have ludicrous mode. Do you have douchebag mode? It just cuts people off. Well, for Lane changes, it's tricky because if you're in La, unless you're pretty aggressive, it's hard to change lanes. It's hard to be Satnam. It's hard to be Namaste here in La. Yeah. If you want to hit that Santa Monica Boulevard, you've got to be a little pushy. You got to be a little pushy. Yeah. Especially freeway. They're angry. They're a little angry. They don't want you in to speed up. Sometimes I think people like, overall are pretty nice on the highway, even in La, but sometimes they're not. Do you think the neural link will help that probably everybody be locked in together. This hive mine tunnels will help, but we don't have traffic. That will help a lot. Yeah. How many of those can you put in there? Nice thing about tunnels is you can go 3D, so you can go many levels, right, until you hit hell yeah, but you could have 100 levels of tunnel. No bones. Jesus Christ. I don't want to be on 99, not to be on 99. Negative, 99 floors. This is one of the fundamental things people don't appreciate about tunnels is that it's not like roads. The fundamental issue with roads is that you have a 2D transport system and a 3D living and workspace environment. So you've got all these tall buildings or concentrated work environments, and then you want to go into this, like, 2D transport system, which is hugely inefficient low density because cars are spaced out pretty far. Obviously it's not going to work. You're going to have traffic, guaranteed. But if you can go 3D on your transport system, then you can solve all traffic. You can either go 3D up with a flying car or you can go 3D down with tunnels. You can have as many tunnel levels as you want and you can arbitrarily relieve any amount of traffic. You can go further down with tunnels and you can go up with buildings. 10,000ft down if you want. I wouldn't recommend it, but what was that movie with? What's his face? Bradley. Not Bradley Cooper. No. What the fuck is name Batman. Who is Batman? Christian Bale. Where they fought Dragons. Him and Matthew McConaughey. They went down deep into the Earth. How deep can you go? It was Batman fought Dragons, Batman. But Rain of Fire never saw that. No. Terrible, but good. I wouldn't recommend drilling super far down. Right. Molten Earth is a giant ball of lava with a thin crust on the top, which we think of as like, the surface, the thin and crust, and it's mostly just a big ball of lava. That's Earth. But 10,000ft is not a big deal. Have you given any consideration whatsoever to the flat Earth movement? I think that's a troll situation. Oh, it's not? No, it's not. You would like to think so because you're a super genius, but I, as a normal person, I know this. People are way dumber than me, and they really, really believe. They watch YouTube videos which go on uninterrupted and spew out a bunch of fucking fake facts. Very eloquently and articulately. And they really believe these people really believe. I mean, if it works for them, sure. Fine. It's weird though, right? In this age where there's ludicrous mode in your car, goes 1.9 seconds. Zero to 62.2. .2 which one is 1.9? The next generation Roadster edition. Yeah, I'm on top of the shit. Standard edition performance package. What performance package? What the fuck do you need? We put rocket thrusters on it. For real? Yes. What are they going to burn? Nothing. Ultra high pressure compressed air. Oh, just air. Coal gas thrusters. Do you have to have air tanks or they're sucking air? Okay, yeah, it's an electric pump. Pump it up to like 10,000 PSI. And how fast are we talking? Zero to 60. How fast do you want to go. You can make it fly. I want to go back in time. Make it fly. You make it fly? Sure. Do you anticipate that as being you're talking about the tunnels and then flying cars. Do you really think that's going to be real? It's too noisy and there's too much airflow. So the final issue with flying cars, forget one of those, like, toy drones. Think of how loud those are and how much air they blow. Now imagine if that's, like, 1000 times heavier. It's not going to make your neighbors happy. Your neighbors are not going to be happy. If you land a flying car in your backyard, it'll be very helicopter or on your roof. They're just really going to be like, what the hell? That was annoying. If you want a flying car, just put some wheels on a helicopter. Is there a way around that? Like, what if they figure out some sort of magnetic technology, like all those Bob Lazar type characters were thinking that was a part of the UFO technology they were doing at Area 51. Remember? Didn't they have some thoughts about magnetics? No. No. Bullshit. Yes. Really? Yeah. There's a fundamental momentum exchange with the air. So you must accelerate. You have a mass and you have gravitational acceleration, and your mass times gravity must equal the massive airflow times the acceleration of that air flow to have a neutral force. So it's impossible, and then you won't move. But if Mg is greater than Ma, you will go down. And if M A is greater than Mg, you will go up. That's how it works. There's just no way around that. There is definitely no way around it. There's no way to create some sort of a magnetic something or another that allows you to technically, yes, you could have a strong enough magnet, but that magnet would be so strong that you would create a lot of trouble. We just suck cars up into your car. Just pick up. You have to repel off of either material on the ground or in a really nutty situation, off of Earth's gravitational field and somehow make that incredibly light. But that magnet would cause so much destruction. You'd be better off with a helicopter. So if there was some sort of magnet road, like, you have two magnets and they repel each other. If you had some sort of a magnet road that was below you and you could travel on that magnet road, that would work. Yes. You could have a magnet road. A magnet road. Is that too ridiculous? No, it would work. You could do that. It's ridiculous too, right? I would not recommend it. There's a lot of things I don't recommend. I recommend. That not wise, I think. No roads? No, definitely not. That would cause a lot of trouble. So you put some time and consideration into this other than instead of my foolishly rendered thoughts. So you think that tunnels are the way to do it. Oh, it'll work for sure. That'll work. Yes. And these tunnels that you're building right now, these are basically just like test versions of this ultimate idea that you have. It's just a hole in the ground. Right. We played videos of it where your idea is that you're going to drop that hole in the ground. There's a sled on it, and the sled goes very fast, like 100 miles an hour plus. Yeah. You can go real fast, as fast as you want. And then if you want to go long distances, you can just draw the air out of the tunnel, make sure it's real straight. Draw the air out of the tunnel. Yeah. So vacuum tunnel. And then depending on how fast you want to go through these wheels. Or you could use air bearings, depending upon the ambient pressure in the tunnel. Or you could maglev it if you want to go super fast. So magnet road. Yes. But underground magnet road. Underground magnet. Otherwise you're going to really create a lot of trouble with because those metal things. So magnet roads is the way to go. Just underground. If you want to go really fast underground, you would be Mag Lev in a vacuum tunnel. Mag in a vacuum tunnel. Magnetic levitation in a vacuum tunnel. Launches. Pardon? With rocket launchers. No, I would not recommend putting any exhaust gas in the tunnel. Oh, okay. I see what you're saying. Because then you got air pumped on. Right. You have to pump it out and you probably have a limited amount of air in the first place. Like how much can you breathe? Do you have to pump oxygen into these cubicles? No. You'd have a pressurized pod. It'd be like a little tiny underground spaceship, basically like an airplane. Because you have air and airplane. It's not getting new air in. It is? Yes. They have like a little hole. Yeah. They have a pump. Really? It gets it from the outside. Yes. Wow. I didn't know that airplanes have it easy because essentially they're pretty leaky. As long as the air pump is working at a decent speed, they have backup pumps. So have like three pumps or four pumps or something. And then it exhausts through the outflow valve and through whatever. Seals are not sealing quite right. Usually the door doesn't seal quite right on a plane, there's a bit of leakage around the door, but the pumps exceed the outflow rate, and then that sets the pressure in the cabin. Now, have you ever looked at planes and gone. I could fix this. I just don't have the time. I'm a design for a plane. You do? Yes. A better design. I mean, probably. I think it is. Who have you talked to about this? I've talked to friends. How many friends? Girlfriends. You can tell me. What do you got? What's going on? Well, I mean, the exciting thing to do would be some sort of electric vertical takeoff and landing supersonic jet of some kind. Vertical takeoff and landing, meaning no need for a runway, just shoot up straight in the air. How would you do that? They do that in some military aircraft, correct? Yes. The trick is that you have to transition to level flight, and then the thing that you would use for vertical tip or take off and landing is not suitable for high speed flight. So you have two different systems. I've thought about quite a lot. The interesting thing about an electric plane is that you want to go as high as possible, but you need a certain energy density in the battery pack because you have to overcome gravitational potential energy. Once you've come gravitational potential energy and you're at a high altitude, the energy you use in cruise is very low, and then you can recapture a large part of the gravitational potential engine on the way down. So you really don't need any kind of reserve fuel, if you will, because you have the energy of height. Gravitational potential energy. This is a lot of energy once you can get high. The way to think about a plane is it's a force balance. So the force balance a plane that is not accelerating is a neutral force balance. The force of gravity. You have the lift force of the wings. Then you've got the force of whatever thrusting device, the propeller or turbine or whatever it is, and you've got the resistance force of the air. Now, the higher you go, the lower the air resistance is. Air density drops exponentially, but drag increases with the square and exponential beats the square. The higher you go, the faster you will go for the same amount of energy. And at a certain altitude, you can go supersonic with less energy per mile. Quite a lot less energy per mile than an aircraft at 35,000ft, because it's just a force balance. I'm too stupid for this conversation. It makes sense, though. No, I'm sure it does. Now, when you think about this new idea of designing, when you have this idea about improving planes, are you going to bring this to somebody? Well, I have a lot on my plate, right? That's what I'm saying. I don't know how you do what you do now, but if you keep coming up with these, but it's got to be hard to pawn these off on someone else either. Hey, go do a good job with this vertical takeoff and landing system that I want to implement to regular planes. Electric airplane isn't necessary right now. Electric cars are important. We need solar energy is important. Stationary storage of energy is important. These things are much more important than creating electric supersonic feet tall. Also, the planes naturally, you really want that gravitational energy density for an aircraft, and this is improving over time. So it's important that we accelerate the transition to sustainable energy. That's why electric cars matters whether electric cars happen sooner or later. We're really playing a crazy game here with the atmosphere and the oceans. We're taking vast amounts of carbon from deep underground and putting this in the atmosphere. This is crazy. We should not do this. It's very dangerous. So we should accelerate the transition to sustainable energy. The bizarre thing is that obviously we're going to run out of oil in long term. There's only so much oil we can mine and burn. It's total logical, we must have sustainable energy transport and energy infrastructure in the long term. So we know that's the end point. We know that. So why run this crazy experiment where we take trillions of tons of carbon from underground and put it in the atmosphere and oceans? This is an insane experiment. It's the dumbest experiment in human history. Why are we doing this? It's crazy. Do you think this is a product of momentum that we started off doing this when it was just a few engines, a few hundred million gallons of fuel over the whole world. Not that big of a deal. And then slowly but surely over a century it got out of control. And now it's not just our fuel, but it's also fossil fuels are involved in so many different electronics, so many different items that people buy. There's just this constant desire for fossil fuels, constant need for oil without consideration of the sustainability. The things like oil, coal, gas. It's easy money. It's easy money. Have you heard about clean coal? The president's been tweeting about it. It's got to be real clean coal. All caps. Did you say used all caps? Clean coal? Well, it's very difficult to put that CO2 back in the ground. It doesn't like being in solid form. Have you like that? Like some sort of a filter? Giant building sized filter sucks carbon out of the atmosphere? No, it's not possible. No, definitely not fucked. No, we're not fucked. I mean, this is quite a complex question, right? The more carbon we take out of the ground and add to the atmosphere and a lot of it gets permeated into the oceans, the more dangerous it is. I don't think right now. I think we're okay right now. We can probably even add some more. But the momentum towards sustainable energy is too slow. There's a vast base of industry, vast transportation system like this. There's two and a half billion cars and trucks in the world. And the new car and truck production, if it was 100% electric, that's only about 100 million per year. So it would take if you could snap your fingers and instantly turn all cars and trucks electric, it would still take 25 years to change the transport base to electric. Makes sense because how long does a car truck last before it goes into the junkyard and gets crushed? About 20 to 25 years. Is there a way to accelerate that process? Like some sort of subsidies or some encouragement from the government financially? Well, the thing that is going on right now is that there is an inherent subsidy in any oil burning device, any power plant or car is fundamentally consuming the carbon capacity of the oceans and atmosphere, or just say atmosphere for short. So you can say, okay, there's a certain probability of something bad happening past a certain carbon concentration in the atmosphere. And so there's some uncertain number where if we put too much carbon in the atmosphere, things overheat, oceans warm up, ice caps melt, ocean, real estate becomes a lot less valuable. Things are underwater. But it's not clear what that number is. But it's definitely a scientist. It's really quite the scientific consensus is overwhelming. Overwhelming. I mean, I don't know any serious scientists actually zero, literally zero, who don't think that we have quite a serious climate risk that we're facing. And so there's fundamentally a subsidy occurring with every fossil fuel burning thing. Power plants, aircraft, car, frankly, even Rockets. I mean, Rockets use up, they burn fuel. But with Rockets, there's just no other way to get to orbit, unfortunately. So it's the only way. But with cars, there's definitely a better way with electric cars and to generate the energy do so with fault voltage, because we've got a giant thermonuclear reactor in the sky called the sun. It's great. It shows up every day, very reliable. So if you can generate energy from solar panels stored with batteries, you can have energy 24 hours a day, and then you can send it to the poles or near to the north with high voltage lines. Also, the Northern parts of the world tend to have a lot of Hydro power as well. But anyway, all fossil fuel powered things have an inherent subsidy, which is their consumption of the carbon capacity of the atmosphere and oceans. So people tend to think, why should electric vehicles have a subsidy? But they're not taking into account that all fossil fuel burning vehicles fundamentally are subsidized by the cost, the environmental cost to Earth. But nobody is paying for it. We are going to pay for it. Obviously, in the future we will pay for it. It's just not paid for. Now, what is the bottleneck in regards to electric cars and trucks and things like that? Is it battery capacity? Yeah, I've got to scale up production, got to make the car compelling, make it better than gasoline or diesel. Cars make it more efficient in terms of the distance it can travel. Yeah, I got to be able to go far enough, recharge fast. And your Roadster, you're anticipating 600 miles, is that correct? Yeah, 600 miles. Is that right now, like, have you driven 1600 miles now? No, we could totally make one right now. That would be 600 miles. But the thing is too expensive, like the car. How much more? So well, just have a turn to kilowatt hour battery pack and you can go 600 miles. Right. What do you have now? 330 miles range. What is that in terms of kilowatts? Well, that would be for Model S, 100 kilowatt hour pack. We'll do about 330 miles, maybe 335. But some people have hyper mild. It to 500 miles. Hyper mild. What is it? Yeah, I just go on 45 miles an hour or something. Yeah, they're like 30 miles an hour on level ground with pump the tires up really well and go on a smooth surface. And you can go for a long time, but you can definitely comfortably do 300 miles, which is fine for most people. Usually 200 or 250 miles is fine. 300 miles. You don't even think about it, really. Is there any possibility that you could use solar powered one day, especially in Los Angeles? I mean, as you said about that giant nuclear reactor a million times bigger than Earth, just floating in the sky, is it possible that one day you'll be able to just power all these cars just on solar power? I mean, we don't ever have cloudy days if we do this. Three of them. Well, the surface area of a car is without making the car really blocky or having some like a G wagon. Yeah. And just like having a lot of stuff, sir, where maybe solar panels fold out or something like your E class. That's what we needed. The Etype. Yeah, the Jaguar Etype with a giant long hood. That could be a giant solar panel. Well, at the beginning of Tesla, I did want to have this unfolding solar panel thing that you'd press a button and it would just unfold these solar panels and recharge your car in the parking lot. Yes, we could do that. But I think it's probably better to just put that on your roof. Right. And then it's going to be facing the sun all the time, because otherwise your car could be in the shade. It could be in the shade. It could be in a garage or something like that. Didn't a Fisker have that on the roof? The Fiscal Karma new generation for I believe it was only for the radio. Is that correct? Yes, I think it could recharge like 2 miles a day or something. Did you laugh when they started blowing up? When they got hit with water? Do you remember what happened? What? Yeah, they had a dealership. Oh, yeah. The Fiscal Carmens were parked. Is that like that with a flood in Jersey? Yes. When the Hurricane came in, they got overwhelmed with water and they all started exploding. It's fucking great video of it. Did you watch the video? I didn't watch the video, but I did see a picture of the Ashley naked lubed up. Watch the video. Laugh my ass off. They all blow up. They got wet and they blew up. That's not good. Yeah, we made out battery waterproof, so that doesn't happen smart. Yeah. There was a guy in Kazakhstan that I think it was Kazakhstan that he just boated through a tunnel under an underwater tunnel, like a flooded tunnel, and just turn the wheels to steer and press the accelerator. And it just floated through the tunnel and he steered around the other cars. That's amazing. It's on the Internet. What happens if your car gets a little sideways? Like, if you're driving in snow? What if your autopilot is on and you're in Denver and it snows out and your car gets a little sideways? Does it correct itself? Oh, yeah. It's got great traction control. But does it know how to correct? Do you know how your ass end kicks out? You know how to counter steer? Oh, yeah. No, it's really good. It knows how to do it. Yeah. Whoa. It's pretty crazy. That's pretty crazy. Yeah. So, like, if you're going sideways, it knows how to correct itself. It generally won't go sideways. It won't? No. Why not? It will correct itself before it goes sideways, even in black eyes. Yeah. These videos, we can see the car not alone. Traction control system is very good. It makes you feel like Superman. It's great. It will make you feel like this incredible driver. I believe it. Yeah. Now how do you program? We do our testing on, like, an ice Lake in Sweden. Oh, really? Yeah. And like Norway and Canada and a few other places, Porsche does a lot of that, too. They deal with as well. They do some of their driver training school on these frozen surfaces. So the car is going sideways, whether you like it or not, and you have to learn how to slide into corners. And how do we do that? Well, electric cars have really great traction control because the reaction time is so fast. Right. So with the gas and car, you've got a lot of latency. It takes a while for the engine to react, but for electric motor is incredibly precise. That's why you can imagine if you have, like a printer or something. You wouldn't have a gasoline engine printer. That would be pretty weird. Or like a surgical device. It's going to be an electric motor on the surgical device on the printer. Gasoline engine is going to be just chugging away. It's not going to have the reaction time. But to an electric motor, it's operating at the millisecond level. So it can turn on and off traction within inches of getting on the onus. Like, let's say drive a patch of ice. It'll turn traction off and then turn it on a couple of inches right after the ice. Like it's a little patch of ice. Because in the frame of the electric motor, you're moving incredibly slowly. You're a snail. You're just moving so slowly because it can see at 1000 frames a second. And so one Mississippi, it just thought about things 1000 times. So it's realized that your wheels are not getting traction. It understands there's some slippery surface that you're driving on and it makes adjustments in real time. Yes. In milliseconds, that would be so much safer than a regular car. Yes. It is just that alone for loved ones. You'd want them to be driving your car? Yes, I'm on board. Motors. Fuck regular Motors. The SX and three have the lowest probability of injury of any cars ever tested by the US government. Wow. Yeah. But it's pretty funny. It's pretty crazy. People still sue us. They'll have some accident at 60 miles an hour where they twisted an ankle and there will be dead in another car. They still sue us. But that's to be expected, isn't it? To be expected? Do you take that into account with the same sort of fatalistic undertones? Just sort of just go. You got to just let it go. This is what people do. That's what it is. Quite a lot of respect for the justice system. Judges are very smart. So far, I've found judges to be very good at justice because juries are good, too. They're actually quite good. You read about occasional errors in the justice system. Let me tell you, most of the time they're very good. The guy mentioned that who fell asleep in the car and he rode over a cyclist. And that was what encouraged me to get autopilot out as soon as possible. That guy sued us. He sued you for falling asleep? Yes. I'm not going to. He blamed it on the new car smell. What? Yes, he blamed him falling asleep on your new car smell. This is a real thing that happened. Someone who's a lawyer that thought that through in front of his laptop before he wrote that up. Yes. He got a lawyer and he sued us. And the judge was like, this is crazy. Stop bothering me. No, thank God. Yes, thank God. Thank God. This is judge out there with a brain. Judges are very good. Some of them. What about that judge? A lot of boys up the river in Pennsylvania who is selling those kids out? You know about that story? Yeah. Judge was selling young boys to prisons. He was literally literally under bribes. Was this an elected judge or he was like, somebody have a judge that's like actually a politician? No, he's an elected judge. This is a very famous story. He's in jail right now, I think, for the rest of his life. And he put away. He would take like, a young boy would do something like steal something from a store. Okay. And he would put him in detention for five years, something ridiculously egregious. And they investigated his history and they found out that he was literally being paid off. Was it by private prisons? Is that what the deal was? There was some sort of. But anyway, this judges, two judges. Two judges, kids for cash scandals, what's called 2008. Yeah, commonplace judges so I think they are elected. And who was paying them? It was proven to the point where they're in jail now that someone was paying them to put more asses in the seats in these private prisons. A million dollar payment to put them in the youth centers builder, a million dollars payment. Yeah. I do think it's this private prison thing is creating a bad incentive, right? Yes. But that judge is in prison, thank God. Yes. But for people who think perhaps the justice system consists entirely of judges like that, I want to assure you this is not the case. The vast majority of judges are very good. I agree. And they care about justice, and they could have made a lot more money if they wanted to be a trial lawyer. And instead they cared about justice and they made less money because they care about justice. And that's why they're judges. I feel that same way about police officers. I feel like there's so many interactions with so many different people with police officers that the very few that stand out that are horrific. We tend to look at that like this is evidence that police are all corrupt. And I think that's crazy. Most police are very honest. Yes. Military personnel that I know are very honorable, ethical people and much more ethical than the average person. That's my impression. That's my impression as well. And that's not just that we be complacent and assume everyone is honest and ethical. And obviously, if somebody is given a trusted place in society, such as being a police officer or a judge, and they are corrupted, then we must be extra vigilant against such situations and take action. But we should not think that this is somehow broadly descriptive of people in that profession. I couldn't agree more. I think there's also an issue with one of the things that happens with police officers, prosecutors, and anyone that's trying to convict someone or arrest someone as that it becomes a game. And in games, people want to win, and sometimes people cheat. Yes. If you're a prosecutor, you should not always want to win. There are times when you should like, okay, I should not want to win this case and then just pass on that case. Sometimes people want to win too much. That is true. I think also it becomes tough if you're like a district attorney, you tend to sort of see a lot of criminals, and then your view of the world can get negatively have a negative view of the world because you're just interacting with a lot of criminals. But actually, most of society is not consistent criminals. Right. And I actually had this conversation at Dennis several years ago with Sister Tony. I was like, man sometimes seem pretty dark because man, there's some terrible human beings out there. And he was like, yes. And he was like dealing with some case which consisted of a couple of old ladies that would run people over somehow for insurance money. It was rough. I was like, wow, that's pretty rough. It's hard to maintain faith in humanity if you're a district attorney, but, you know, it's only a few percent of society that are actually bad. And then if you go to the worst 1% of society or the worst one in 1001 in a million, how bad is the million th worst person in the United States for damn bad? Like, damn evil. One in a million of evil is so evil, people cannot even conceive of it. But there are 330,000,000 people in the United States. So that's 330 people out there somewhere. But by the same token, there's also 330 people who are incredible Angels and unbelievably good human beings. Yeah. On the other side. But because of our fear of danger, our thoughts tend to gravitate towards the worst case scenario. Yes. And we want to frame that. And it's one of the real problems with prejudice, whether it's prejudiced towards different minorities or prejudice towards police officers or anything. We want to look at the worst case scenario and say, this is an example of what this is all about. And you see that even with people, how they frame genders, some men frame women like that. They get ripped off by a few women. And they said all women are evil. Some women get fucked over by a few men. All men are shit. And this is very toxic. And it's a very unbalanced way of viewing the world. And it's very emotionally based, and it's based on your own experience, your own anecdotal experience. And it can be very influential to the people around you. And it's just a dangerous thought process and pattern to promote it is. It is a very dangerous thought pattern. I really think people should give other people the benefit of the doubt and assume that they're good until proven otherwise. And I think really, most people are actually pretty good people. Nobody's perfect. They have to be. If you think the vast numbers of us, they're just interacting with each other constantly, we have to be better than we think we are. There's no other way. I mean, here are these weapons, but how many times nobody's presumably tried to motor you? And yes, nobody is right there fake flamethrower here. It's not a flamethrower. Now we've got a real problem. I'm going to put it on that side, too. I'm going to leave it for the guests. Yeah. I'm like, look, man, if I say something that fucked up, it's right there. So we're liven things up for sure. Guaranteed to make any party better. Yeah. Well, that's the armed civilization theory, right. That an armed community is a safe and polite community in Texas. It's kind of true. Yeah. I mean, people in Texas are super polite and everybody's got a gun. Don't make somebody angry. Don't know what's going to happen. Yeah. It's not a good move. Piss people off and everybody can have a gun. Just let that guy get in your Lane. Yeah. We got a big test site in central Texas near Waco. That's beautiful. Yeah. Spacex in McGregor, about 15 minutes away from Waco. That's close to where Ted Dujit lives in Ted Nugent. Okay, cool. We have lots of fire and loud explosions and things, and people bet they're cool with it. They don't give a fuck out there. They're very supportive. Yes. You can buy fireworks where your kids go to school. Yeah. It's dangerous. Yes. But it's free. There's something about Texas. It's very enticing because of that. It is dangerous, but it's also free, right? Yeah. I kind of like Texas, actually. Well, I prefer it over places that are more restrictive but more Liberal. Because you could always be Liberal. Just because things are free and just because you have a certain amount of right wing type characters, it doesn't mean you have to be that way. And honestly, there's a lot of those people that are pretty fucking open minded and let you do whatever you want to do. Sometimes you don't bother them. Yeah, exactly. That's my hope right now with the way we're able to communicate with each other today and how radically different it is in generations past, is that the dust settles and we all realize, like what you were saying, that most people are good. Most people are good. The vast majority, yes. I think you should get people to benefit out for sure. I think you're right. Yeah. You know what could help that? Mushrooms. Mushrooms, don't you think? They're delicious. Yeah, right. They're good for you, too. All of them. All kinds of them. What do you see in terms of, like, when you think about the future of your companies? What do you see as, like, bottlenecks? Sure. Thank you. What do you see in terms of, like, bottlenecks of things that are holding back innovation? Is it regulatory commissions and people that don't understand the technology that are influencing policy? What could potentially be holding you guys back right now? Is there anything that you would change? Yeah, that's a good question. I wish politicians were better at science. That would help a lot. That's a problem. Yes. There's no incentive for them to be good at science. There isn't, actually. They're pretty good at science in China, I have to say. Yeah. The Mayor of Beijing is, I believe, an environmental engineering degree, and the deputy Mayor has a physics degree. I met them. And the Mayor said Shanghai is really smart. You're up on technology. What do you think about this government policy of stopping use of Huawei phones? And there's something about the worry about spying. From what I've understand from real tech people, they think it's horseshit, like phones. I don't know. The government said, don't buy Huawei phones. Are you up on that at all? No. Should we just ban on this idea? Well, I guess if you have, like, top secret stuff, then you want to be pretty careful about what hardware you use. But, you know, like, most people do not have top secret stuff. Right. And, like, nobody really cares what porn you watch. Right. Nobody actually cares if they do that's kind of on them. National spy agencies do not give a rat's asked what porn you watch, they do not care. So what secrets does a national spy agency have to learn from the average citizen? Nothing. Well, that's the argument against the narrative, and the argument by a lot of these tech people is that the real concern is that these companies like Huawei are innovating at a radical pace, and they're trying to stop them from integrating into our culture and letting this right now they're the number two cell phone manufacturer in the world. Okay. Samsung's number one, Huawei is number two, Apple is now number three. They surpassed Apple is number two. And the idea is that this is all taking place without them having any foothold whatsoever. In America, there's no carriers that have their phones. You have to buy their phones unlocked through some sort of a third party and then put. Okay. And the worry is that these are somehow or another controlled by the Chinese government. The Communist Chinese government is going to distribute these phones. And I don't know if it's the worry's economic influence that they'll have too much power. I don't know what it is. Are you paying attention on any of this? Not really, no. I don't think we should worry too much about Huawei phones. Maybe our national security agencies shouldn't have Huawei phones. Maybe that's a question Mark, but I think for the average citizen, it doesn't matter. I'm pretty sure the Chinese government does not care about the goings on of the average American citizen. Is there a time where you think that there will be no security, where it will be impossible to hold back information, that whatever bottleneck will let go, we're going to give in that whatever bottleneck between Privacy and ultimate innovation will have to be bridged in order for us to achieve the next level of technological proficiency, that we're just going to abandon it, and there'll be no security, no Privacy. Do people want Privacy because they seem to put everything on the Internet? Well, right now they're confused. But when you're talking about your neural link and this idea that one day we are going to be able to share information, we are going to be some sort of a thing that's symbiotically connected. Yeah. I think we really need to worry about security in that situation for sure. That's like a security paramount. Sure. Yeah. But also what we will be it will be so much different. Our concerns about money, about status, about all these things will seemingly go by the wayside if we really become enlightened, if we really become artificially enlightened by some sort of an AI interface where we have the symbiotic relationship with some new Internet type connection to information. What happens then? What is important? What is not important is Privacy important when we're all gods? I mean, I think the things that we think are important to keep private right now. Right. We probably will not think our team. Right. Information. Right. What are you hiding? Emotions? What are we hiding? I mean, I think I don't know. Maybe it's like embarrassing stuff, right. Embarrassing stuff. But there's actually, like I think people there's like, not that much that's kept private that is actually relevant. Right. That other people actually care about. And we think other people care about it, but they don't really care about it. And certainly governments don't. Well, some people care about it, but then it gets weird when it gets exposed, like Jennifer Lawrence, when those naked pictures of her got exposed. I think in some ways people liked her more. They realized she's just a person, just a girl who likes sex and is just alive and has a boyfriend and sends them messages. And now you get to look into it and you probably shouldn't have, but somebody let it go and they put it online and. All right. She seems to be doing okay. She's a person. She's just you and me and the same thing. She's just in some weird place where she's on a 35 foot tall screen with music playing every time she talks. I'm sure she's not happy about it, but she's clearly doing fine. But once this interface is fully realized, where we really do become something far more powerful in terms of our cognitive ability or our ability to understand irrational thoughts and mitigate them, and that we're all connected in some sort of an insane way. Our thoughts on wealth, our thoughts on social status. How many of those just evaporate? And our need for Privacy. Maybe our need for Privacy would be the ultimate bottleneck that will have to surpass. I think the things that we think are important now will probably not be important in the future, but there will be things that are important. What will be more important things? There might be some war of ideas potentially. I don't think Darwin is going away. Right. Darwin is going to be there. Darwin will be there forever. Forever. Yes. It would just be a different arena. Different arena. A digital arena. Different arena. That one's not going away. What keeps you up at night? Well, it's quite hard to run companies. Yeah. Especially car companies. How to say it's quite challenging. The car business is the hardest one of all the things you do. Yes. Because it's a consumer oriented business as opposed to SpaceX. Not that SpaceX. Spacex is no walk in the park, but a car company. It's very difficult to keep a car company alive. It's very difficult. There's only two car companies in the history of American car companies that haven't gone bankrupt. And that's Ford and Tesla. That's it. Yeah. Ford rode out that crazy storm, huh? They're the only ones the skin of their teeth shout out to the Mustang. Yeah, by the skin of their teeth. That is interesting. Right? Same with Tesla. We barely survived. How close did you get to folding? Very close. 2008 is not a good time to be a car company, especially a startup car company. Especially an electric car company. That was like stupidity squared. And this is when you had those cool roadsters with the Tea top. With a Target top. Yeah. We had, like, use a highly modified lease chassis. The body was all completely different, by the way. It was super dumb strategy that we actually did. It was based on two false premises. One false premise was that we'd be able to cheaply convert the Lotus Lease and use that as a car platform, and that we would be able to use technology from this little company called AC Propulsion for the electric drivetrain. And the battery problem is the AC Propulsion technology did not work in production and we ended up using none of it in the long term, none of it. We had to resign everything. And then once you add a battery pack and electric motor to the car, it got heavier, got 30% heavier, invalidated the entire structure, all the crash structure, everything had to be redone. Nothing. I think it had less than 7% of the parts were common with any other device, including cars or anything less than 7%. Yes, everything, including tires and wheels, bolts, brakes, steering wheel. I think the steering wheel was almost the same. The windscreen. Windscreen. No, I think the windscreen is the same. Yes, I think we were able to keep the last 7%. Basically, every body panel was different. The entire structure was different. We couldn't use the HVAC system. The air conditioner was a belt driven air conditioner. Now we needed something that was electrically driven. We need a new AC compressor and all that takes away from the battery life as well. Right, yeah. We need a small, highly efficient air conditioning system that fit in a tiny car and was electrically powered, not belt driven. It's very difficult. How much do those weigh those cars, the Roadster? I think it was about 2700. Still very dependent on which version? 26. 50 to 27. 50, something like that. And what was the weight distribution? Well, there were different versions of the car, so it's about 55 on the rear, because we're rear bias. Right. But not bad, considering, like a 911, which is like one of the most popular sports cards of all time. Heavy rear end bias. Well, yeah, the 911 joke is like the Vanish joke, despite Newton not being on their side. If you're fighting Newton, it's very difficult. Well, it's like you've got the moments of inertia on a 911 don't make any sense. They do once you understand them, you don't want to hang the engine off gas. This is not a wise move. You don't want to let up on the gas when you're in a corner. The problem with something where the engine is mounted over the rear axle or off the rear axle towards the rear is that your polar moment of inertia is fundamentally screwed. You cannot solve this. It's unsolvable. Moment inertia. You're screwed, right? Essentially, if you spawn the car like a top, that's your problem. Moment of no show. I promise. They wouldn't swear on this show, by the way. Really? To who? A friend. Tell that friend to go fuck himself. Who told you not to swear? A friend. He's not a good friend. Yes. Realize you're fucking Elon Musk. You can do whatever you want, man. If you ever get confused, call me. I'll swear in private. Square up a storm. Just say freaking. It's a fun way. They're like old house moms, wives and shit that have children. This freaking thing. Yeah, but anyway, the Porsche is kind of incredible. How well Porsche handles, given that the physics moments of inertia are so messed up to actually still make it work. Well, is incredible. Well, if you know how to turn into the corner, once you get used to the feeling of it, there's actual benefits to it. There are some benefits. The car I had before Tesla was a 911. Okay, great car, man. Yes. I mean, particularly on the Porsche, when they had the variable veins, the turbo, and you didn't have the turbo lag. That was great. Yeah, that was really great. The turbo lag is like you floor it like phone a home, call your mom, the older one. About an hour later, the car accelerates and super dangerous, too, because then the real wheel starts spinning. It. Yeah. There's something fun about it, though. Like feeling that rear weight kicking around. And again, it's not efficient. I had a good feel to it. Yeah, I agree. But that's what I was talking about earlier, about that little car that I have, the 93 911. It's not fast. It's not the best handling car, but it's more satisfying than any other car I have because it's so mechanical. It's like everything about it, like crackles and bumps. And it gives you all this feedback. And I take it to the Comedy Store because when I get there, I feel like my brain is just popping and it's on fire. It's like a strategy for me now that I really stopped driving other cars there. I drive that car there just for the brain juice, just for the interaction. You should try model S, P, 100 D. It'll blow your mind and your skull. Okay. Yeah. Tell me what to order. I'll order it. Model S, P, 100 D. Okay, Jamie, that's the car that I drive. Okay. I'll get with the car you drive. Okay. It will blow your mind out of your spell. I believe you. How far can I drive? How far? About 300 miles. That's good for la regular days. You will never notice the battery. Never. How hard is it to get like one of them crazy plugs installed in your house? Is that difficult? No, it's super easy. It's like a dryer plug. It's like a dryer outlet. Didn't you come up with some crazy tiles for your roof that are solar panels? Yeah, I have it on my roof right now, actually. I'm just trying it out. The thing is, it takes a while to test roof stuff because roofs have to last a long time. Right. So you want your roof to last 30 years over a regular roof. So there's two versions, like the solar panels you put on a roof. So it depends on whether your roof is new or old. So if your roof is new, you don't want to replace the roof. You want to put like solar panels on the roof. Right. So that's like retrofit. And then we're trying to make the retrofit panels look real nice. But then the new product we're coming out with is if you have a roof that's either you're building a house or you're going to replace your roof anyway. Then you make the tiles have solar cells embedded in the tiles, and then it's quite a tricky thing because you want to not see the solar cell behind the glass tile. So you have to really work with the glass and the various coatings and layers so that you don't see the solar cell behind the glass. Otherwise it doesn't look right. Right. So it's really tricky. There it is. Jamie, put it up there. Yeah, that looks good. If you look closely, if you Zoom in and you can see the cell, but if you Zoom out, you don't see the cell. Right. Well, it looks cool, though. It's really hard because you have to have sunlight go through. Right. But when it gets reflected back out, it hides the fact that there's a sale there. Now, are those available to the consumer right now? Well, we have I think that was on that roof right there. Yes. That's amazing. Oh, that looks good. Yeah, I like that. That one is hard. Oh, so you get that kind of fake Spanish looking thing. I like that's French slate that's white people in Connecticut smoking pipes. Look at that one. Yeah, that's badass, dude. Those will actually work. I believe you. So the solar panels that are on that house that we just looked at, is that sufficient to power the entire home? It depends on your energy on house, for sure. Yeah. Generally, yes. I would say it's probably for most it's going to vary, but anywhere from more than you need to maybe call it half to 1.5 of the energy that you need, depending on how much roof you have relative to living space and how ridiculous you are with the TV. Tv is no problem. Air conditioning is the problem if you have an efficient air conditioner. And depending on how are you air conditioning rooms when they don't need to be air conditioned, which is very common because you pain in the neck. It's like programming a BCR. It's just a blinking twelve. So people just like, the hell with that. I'm just going to make it this temperature all day long, right. They don't have a smart home where if you're in the room, then it stays cool, right? Yeah. It should predict when you're going to be home and then cool the rooms that you're likely to use with a little bit of intelligence. We're not talking about like, genius home here. We're just talking like elementary basic stuff. If you could hook that into the car, like news, you're coming home. There's no point in cooling the home, keeping the home really cool when you're not there. But I can tell that you're coming home, it's going to cool it to the right temperature. Right. Do you have an out there that works with your solar panels or anything like that? Yeah, we do. But we need to hook it into the air conditioning to really make the air conditioning work. Have you thought about creating an air conditioning system? I know you have. Trick question, cannot answer questions about future potential. Okay, let's just let it go. We'll move on to the next thing. That would be an interesting idea. Yeah, I would say radiant heating, all that good ideas. Now, when you think about the efficiency of these homes and you think about implementing solar power and battery power, and is there anything else that people are missing? Is there any other, like, I just saw a smartwatch that is powered by the heat of the human body, some new technology, it's able to fully power that way. I don't know if it's fully or if it's like this watch right here. This is a Casio. It's called a pro tech, and it's like an outdoors watch, and it's solar powered. And so it has the ability to operate for a certain amount of time on solar. So if you have it exposed, it could function for a certain amount of time on solar. Yeah, well, like, there's a self rating watches where it's got a weight in the watch. And as you move your wrist, the weight moves from one side to the other and it winds the watch up. That's a pretty cool thing. Yeah. Well, it's amazing that, like, Rolex is that it's all done mechanically. There's no batteries in there. There's no nothing. Yeah. You could do the same thing and create a little charger that's based on wrist movement. It really depends on how much energy you watch uses. You know what's fucked up about that, though? We accept a certain amount of fuckery with those watches. Like, I brought my watch. I have a Rolex that my friend Lorenzo gave me, and I brought it to the watch store. And I said, this thing is always fast. I said, It's always like, after a couple of months, it's like five minutes fast. And they go, yes, really, just what it does. I go, Hold on. I go, So you're telling me that it just is always going to be fast? They're like, yeah, it's just like every few months you got to reset. It seems like they should recalibrate that thing. They can't. They tried. They say every few months, whether it's four months or five months or six months, it's going to be a couple of minutes fast. Okay. It seems like they should really recalibrate that because if it's always fast, you could just delete those minutes. You need to fucking kick down the door at Rolex and go, you bitches are lazy. It's kind of amazing that you can keep time mechanically on a wristwatch with these tiny little gears. It's amazing. Yeah. I mean, the whole luxury watch market is fascinating. I'm not that involved in terms. I don't buy them. I bought them as gifts. I don't buy them for myself. But when I look at them online, there's million dollar watches out there now that are like. They have, like, little rotating moons and stars, and they live like, look at this thing. How much is that one? Jamie, these are fucking preposterous. I like gears. I love them. I think they're beautiful. But there's some of these people that are just taking it right in the ass. They're buying these watches for like $750,000. I'm like, Yo, that's a Timex Sun. Nobody knows. It's not any better than some Casio that you could just buy online. Like, look at that, though. Well, here's the thing. If you're a person that doesn't just want to know the time, you want craftsmanship, you want some artisan's touch. You want innovation. In terms of a person figuring out how gears and cogs all line up perfectly to every time it turns over, it's basically a second. There's art to that. Yeah, I agree. It's not just telling time. I like this watch a lot, but if it got hit by a rock, I wouldn't be sad. Yeah, it's just a watch. It's a mass produced thing that runs on some quartz battery. But those things, there's art to that. No, I agree. It's beautiful. Yeah, yeah. Love it. Yeah. There's something amazing about it because it represents the human creativity. It's not just electronic innovation. There's something. It's a person working that. Yes. You don't have a watch on now, ever. I used to have a watch. What happened? My phone tells the time. What if you lose your phone? Hold on, let me guess. You are a no case guy. That's correct. Living on the edge without a case. Neil Grass Tyson. Neil Grass Tyson was in here last week. I marveled his ability to get through life without a case. That's right. You know, he takes his phone and he flips it in between his fingers like a soldier would do with his rifle. He just rolls that shed in between his fingers. Okay. Marvelous. Wow. He says that's the reason why they do it. He said when you look at someone who has a rifle, why would they do that? Why would they flip it around like that? Right. So that when it goes to drop, they have it in their hand. They catch it quickly. So that's what he does with his phone. He's just flipping his phone around all the time. I got that in Mexico. I was hoping it holds joints. Does it do anything it leaves open? It just to hold things in there, but, like, try to put a joint in there, close it. You put like, one. One blunt one. But it seems pretentious that's the idea behind it. I bought it when I was in Mexico because I figured it would be a good size to hold joints or front. So is that a joint or is it a cigar? No. Okay. It's marijuana inside of tobacco. Okay. So it's like tobacco pod. You never had that? Yeah, I think I tried one once. Come on, man. You probably can't because stockholders, right? I mean, it's legal, right? Totally legal. Okay. How does that work? Do people get upset at you if you do certain things? Tobacco and marijuana in there. That's all it is. The combination of tobacco and marijuana is wonderful. First turned onto it by Charlie Murphy and then reignited by Dave Chappelle. Plus whiskey. Exactly. Perfect. Balances it out. Alcohol is a drug. It's been grandfathered in. Well, it's a drug that gets a bad rap because you just have a little. It's great. Fine. Yeah. A little sip here and there and your inhibitions are relaxed and shows your true self, and hopefully you're more joyous and friendly and happy and everything's good. The real worry is the people that can't handle it. Like the real worry about people who can't handle cars that can go zero to 61.9 seconds or anything. Have you ever considered something that imagine if one day everyone has a car that's on the same at least technological standard as one of your cars, and everyone agrees that the smart thing to do is not just to have bumpers, but to perhaps have some sort of a magnetic repellent device, something, some electromagnetic field around the cars that as cars come close to each other, they automatically, radically decelerate because of magnets or something. Well, I mean, our cars break automatically break when they see things. Yes. But like a physical barrier. Well, the wheels work pretty well. Yeah, they work pretty well. Decelerated at 1.1 to 1.2 GS, that kind of thing. Is there a concern that one day all your cars will be on the road and then there'll still be regular people with regular cars 2030 years from now that'll get in the mix and be the main problem. Yeah. I think it'd be sort of like a time of transition where there were horses and gasoline cars on the road at the same time. It's been pretty weird. That'd be the weirdest. Yeah. And horses were tricky back in Manhattan. Had, like, 300,000 horses. You figure, like, a horse lives 15 years, got 20,000 horses dropping dead every day or every year, I should say every year, 20,000 horses. If there's 300,000 horses and a few near lifespan back in the gangs in New York days, that movie. Yeah. It's a lot of dead horses. And then you need a horse to move the horse. Right. They probably get pretty freaked out if they have to move a dead horse. Do you think they know what's going on? Yeah. It's got to be, like, pretty weird. No, I would imagine. Why am I dragging this dead horse around and I'm a horse? Do you ever stop and think about your role in civilization? Do you ever stop and think about your role in the culture? Because me, as a person who never met you until today, when I think of you, I've always thought of you as being this weirdo super inventor dude who just somehow or another keeps coming up with new shit. But there's not a lot of you out there like everybody else seems to be. I mean, obviously, you make a lot of money. There's a lot of people that make a lot of money. You like that clock? Yeah, right. This is a great clock. Yeah. You want one? I'll get you one. Sure. Okay, done. I like weird things like this. Oh, this is the coolest TGT promotion. What is this? Tgt Studios. Tgt Studios? Yes. A gentleman who makes all this by hand. Yeah, it's really cool. My study is filled with weird devices. Well, get ready for another one. All right. I'm sending it your way. Cool. You want a werewolf, too? I'll hook you up. All right. I'll take one werewolf and one clock coming up. Do you think about your role in the culture? Because me, as a person who never met you until today, I've always looked at you and like, wow, how does this guy just keep inventing shit? How do you keep coming up with all these new devices and what? Do you ever consider how unusual? I had a dream once that there was a million Teslas instead of, like, one Tesla, there was a million Teslas. Okay. Not Chesley the car, but Nicola. Oh, yeah, sure. And that in his day, there was a million people like him who were radically innovative. It was a weird dream, man. It was so strange. And I've had it more than once results in very rapid technology innovation, that's for sure. It's one of the only dreams in my life I've had more than one time. Okay. Like, where I've woken up and it's in the same dream I'm in the same dream. And in this dream, it's 1940s, 1950s, but everyone is severely advanced. There's flying blimps with LCD screens on the side of them, and everything is bizarre and strange, and it stuck with me for whatever. And obviously it's just a stupid dream, but for whatever reason, all these years, that stuck with me. Like, it takes one man like Nikola Tesla to have more than 100 inventions that were patents, right? I mean, he had some pretty great, pretty fucking amazing ideas. Yes, but in his day, there were very few people like him. That's true. What if there was a million advance very quickly, right? But there's not a million Elon Musk. There's one motherfucker. Do you think about that, or you just try to not think. I don't think you'd necessarily want to be me. What's the worst part about you people would like it that much? Well, most people wouldn't, but they can't beat you, so that's like some superhero type shit. You wouldn't want to be Spiderman rather sleep tight in Gotham City. I hope he's out there doing his job. It's very hard to turn it off. Yeah. What's the hardest part? Might sound great if it's turned on, but what if it doesn't turn off? Now, I showed you the isolation tank, and you've never experienced that before. No, I think that could help you turn it off a little bit, just for the night. Just give you a little bit of sleep, a little bit of perspective. Magnesium that you get from the water as well. That makes you sleep easier because the water has Epsom salts in it. But maybe some sort of strategy for sacrificing your biological not sacrificing, but enhancing your biological recovery time by figuring out a way, whether it's through meditation or some other ways to shut off that thing at night. You must have a constant stream of ideas that's running through your head all the time. Getting text messages from checks? No, I'm getting text messages from friends saying, what the hell are you doing? Smoking weed. Is that bad for you? It's legal. It's got me approved. I'm not a regular smoker of weed. How often do you smoke it? Almost never. I don't actually notice any effect. Well, there you go. There was a time where I think it was Romdass or someone gave some Buddhist Monk a bunch of acid, okay? And he ate it, and it had no effect on him. I doubt that. I would say that too, but I've never meditated to the level that some of these people have when they're constantly meditating all day. They don't have any material possessions, and all of their energy is spent trying to achieve a certain mindset. I would like to cynically deny that. I'd like to cynically say they just fucking think the same way I do. They just hang out with flip flops on and make weird noises. But maybe. No. I know a lot of people like weed and that's fine. But I don't find that it is very good for productivity. For you, not for me. Yeah. I would imagine that for someone like you, it's not someone like you. It would be more like a cup of coffee. Right. You have a latte? Yeah. It's more like the opposite of a cup of coffee. What do you like a cup of coffee in reverse? Oh, weed is. Yeah. No, I'm saying you would like more. More like what would be beneficial to you would be like coffee. I like to get things done. I like to be useful. That is one of the hardest things to do. It's to be useful. When you say you like to get things done. Yes. In terms of what? Satisfaction. When you complete a project, when something that you invent comes to fruition and you see people enjoying it, that feeling. Yes. Doing something useful for other people that I like doing. That's interesting for other people. Yeah. So do you think that is maybe the way you recognize that you have this unusual position in the culture where you can uniquely influence certain things? Because of this, you essentially have a gift, right? Sure. You would think it was a curse, but I'm sure it's been fueled by many, many years of discipline and learning. But you essentially have a gift and that you have this radical sort of creativity engine when it comes to innovation and technology, it's like you're going at a very high RPMs all the time. What is that? What doesn't stop? I don't know what would happen if I got into a sensory deprivation tank. Sounds concerning. It's like running the engine with no resistance. Is that what it is, though? Maybe it's not. Maybe it's fine. I don't know. I'll try it. I'll try it. Have you ever experimented with meditation or anything? Yeah. What do you do or what have you done? Rather. I mean, just sort of sit there and be quiet and then repeat some mantra which acts as a focal point. It does still the mind. It does still the mind, but I don't find myself drawn to it frequently. Do you think that perhaps productivity is maybe more attractive to you than enlightenment or even the concept of whatever enlightenment means? Like, what are you trying to achieve when you're meditating all the time with view? It seems like, almost like there's a franticness to your creativity that comes out of this burning furnace. And in order for you to, like, calm that thing down, might have to throw too much water on it. It's like a never ending explosion. What is it like? I try to explain it to a dumb person like me. What's going on? Never ending explosion. Just constant ideas just bouncing around. Yes. Damn. Yeah. So when everybody leaves, it's just Elon sitting at home, brushing his teeth. Just a bunch of ideas bouncing around your head. Yeah. All the time. When did you realize that that's not the case with most people? I think when I was, I don't know, five or six or something, I thought I was insane. Why did you think you were insane? Because it was clear that other people do not their mind wasn't exploding with ideas all the time. They weren't expressing it. They weren't talking about it all. And you realize by the time you were five or six, like, oh, they're probably not even getting this thing that I'm getting. No, it was just strange. That was my conclusion. Strange. But did you feel diminished by it in any way? Like, knowing that this is a weird thing that you really probably couldn't commiserate with with other people? They wouldn't understand you. I hope they wouldn't find out because they might put me away or something. You thought that for a second? Yes. When you were little? Yeah. They put people away. What if they put me away, like when you were little, you thought this. Yeah. Wow. You thought this is so radically different than the people that are around me. If they find out I got the stream coming in. Yeah. Wow. But it was only like five or six. Do you think this is like, I mean, there's outliers biologically, there's people that are seven foot nine, there's people that have giant hands, there's people that have eyes, that are 2015 vision. There's always outliers. Do you feel like you caught this, like you're like, on some weird innovation, creativity sort of wave? That's very unusual. Just think of the various things you've been able to accomplish in a very short amount of time and you're constantly doing this. You're a weird person. Right? I agree. Yeah. What if there's a million Elon Musk's? Very weird. Yeah. It'd be pretty weird, like. Right. Real weird. Definitely. Yeah. What if there are millions, Joe Roku? There probably is probably 2 million. I think that's the case with a lot of folks. Yeah. But my goal is trying to useful things, try to maximize the probability. The future is good, make the future exciting, something you look forward to with Tesla. We're like trying to make things that people love. How many things can you buy that you really love, that really give you joy? So rare. I wish there were more things. That's what we're trying to do. Just make things that somebody loves. When you think about making things that someone loves, do you specifically think about what things would improve people's experience? What would change the way people interface with life, that would make them more relaxed or more happy? Like when you're thinking about things like that, is that one of your considerations? What could I do that would help people that maybe they wouldn't be able to figure out? Yeah. What are the set of things that can be done to make the future better? I think that a future where we are a space faring civilization and out there among the stars. This is very exciting. This makes me look forward to the future. This makes me want that future. There needs to be things that make you look forward to waking up in the morning, you wake up in the morning, you look forward to the day, forward to the future in a future where we are a space bearing civilization and out there among the stars. I think that's very exciting. That is the thing we want. Whereas if you knew we would not be a spacefaring civilization but forever confined to Earth, this would not be a good future. That would be very sad. I think it would be sad one's, a sad future of just the finite lifespan of the Earth itself and the solar system itself. That even though it's possibly. How long do they feel like this sun and the solar system is going to exist? How many? Hundreds of millions of years? Well, it's probably if you're saying, when does the sun boil the ocean? Right? About 500 million years. So is it sad that we never leave because in 500 million years that happens? Is that what you're saying? No, I just think, like, there are two futures, and one future is we're out there among the stars and the things we read about and see in science fiction movies, the good ones are true. We have these starships, and we're going to see what other planets are like. We're a multipanet species, and the scope and scale of consciousness has expanded across many civilizations and many planets and many star systems. This is a great future. This is a wonderful thing to me, and that's what we should strive for. But that's biological travel, that's cells traveling physically to another location. Yes. Do you think that's definitely where we're going? No. Yeah, I don't think so either. I used to think so, and now I'm thinking more likely, less than ever. Like, almost every day less likely. We can definitely go to the moon and Mars. Yeah. Do you think we will go to the asteroid belt and we can go to the moons of Jupiter, Saturn? We can even get to Pluto. That would be the craziest place ever. If we colonized Mars and retarraformed it and turned it into, like, a big Jamaica imagine. Great. That'd be great, right? We just turned the whole thing into Cancun over time, it wouldn't be easy, but, yes, you could warm it up. Yeah, you can warm it up. You could add air, get some water there. I mean, over time, hundreds of millions of years or whatever it takes. We could be a multi planet species. That would be amazingly like air conditioning. Saturn, I'm pro human. Me too. Yeah, me too. I love humanity. I think it's great we're glad as a robot that you love humans because we love you, too. And we don't want you to kill us and eat us. Strangely, I think a lot of people don't like humanity and say it as blight, but I do not. Well, I think part of that is just they've been struggling. When people struggle, they associate their struggle with other people. They never internalize their problems. They look to other people as holding them back. And people suck and fuck people. And it's a never ending cycle. But not always again. Most people are really good. Most people, the vast majority. This may sound corny. It does sound corny, but love is the answer. It is the answer. Yeah, it is. It sounds quite because we're all scared. We're all scared of trying to love people being rejected or someone taking advantage of you because you're trying to be loving. Sure. But if we all could just relax and love each other. Wouldn't hurt to have more love in the world. It definitely wouldn't hurt. Yeah, it'd be great. Yeah, we should do that. Yeah, I agree, man. Really? How do you fix that? You have a love machine? No, but probably spend more time with your friends and less time on social media. Now, deleting social media from your applications, from your phones. Does that give you 10% boost to happiness? What do you think? The percentages? I think probably something like that, yeah. Good. 10%. I mean, the only thing I've kept is Twitter because I kind of like need some means of getting a message out. Right. That's about it. So far, so good. Well, what's interesting with you, you actually occasionally engage with people on Twitter. Yeah. What percentage of that is a good idea? Good question. 10%. I think it's unbalanced more good than bad. But there's definitely some bad. Hopefully the good outweighs the bad. Do you ever think about how odd it is? The weird feeling that you get when someone says something shitty to you on Twitter and you read it? The weird feeling, this weird little negative jolt. It's like a subjective negative jolt of energy that you don't really need to absorb. But you do anyway. Well, fuck this guy. Fuck him. I mean, there's a lot of negativity on Twitter. It is, but it's a weird in its form. Like the way if you ingest it, if you try to be like a scientist as you're ingesting it, you're like, wow, how weird is this? And I'm even getting upset at some strange person saying something mean to me. It's not even accurate. I mean, there are vast number of negative comments for the vast majority. I just ignore them. The vast majority? Yeah. Every now and again you're drawn in. It's not good. It's not good. Make mistakes. Yes. You can make mistakes. You can make some mistakes. We're all human. We can make mistakes. Yeah. It's hard. And people love it when you say something and you take it back and they're like, Fuck you. We saved it forever. Fucking screenshot. That shit, bitch. You had that thought. You had that thought like, well, I deleted. It not good enough. You had the thought I'm better than you. I never had that thought. You had that thought, you piece of shit. Look, I saved it. I put it on my blog. Yeah. I'm not sure why people think that anyone would think that deleting a tweet makes it go away. It's like, hello. Been on the Internet for a while. Yeah. Well, it's even like, the thing is, they don't want you to be able to delete it. Because the problem is, if you don't delete it and you don't believe it anymore, it's really hard to say, hey, that thing above. I don't really believe that anymore. I changed the way I view things because people go, well, fuck you. I have that over there. I'm going to just take that. I'm not going to pay attention. That shit you wrote underneath it's on your permanent record forever, bro. Like high school, too. We'll put this on your permanent record. Yeah. It's like a tattoo. You keep it. Well, it's this thing where there's a lack of compassion. It's a lack of compassion issue. People are just, like, intentionally shitty to each other all the time online and trying to catch. They're more trying to catch people doing something that's arrestable. Like a cop trying to get arrests on his record. It's like they're trying to catch you with something more than they're logically looking at it, thinking it's a bad thing that you've done. Or it's an idea they don't agree with so much they need to insult you. Trying to catch you. Yeah. I mean, it's way easier to be mean on social media than it is to be mean in person. Yes, way easier. Yeah. It's weird. It's not a normal way of human interacting. It's cheating. You're not supposed to be able to interact so easily, but people are not looking at. Yes. You would never do that. You'd never be so mean to somebody looking in their eyes. And if you did, you'd feel like shit. Most people. Yeah. Unless you're a sociopath, you'd feel terrible. Yes. Elon Musk, this has been a pleasure. Yeah, likewise. It really has been. It's been an honor. Thank you for having me. Thanks for doing this. Because I know you don't do a lot of long form stuff like this. I hope I didn't weird you out. And I hope you don't get mad that you smoked weed. I mean, not bad. It's legal. Weird. California just as legal as this whiskey we've been drinking. Exactly. This is all good. Right. Cheers. Cheers. Thank you. Is there any message you would like to put out other than loves the answer. Because I think you really nailed it with that. No. I think people should be nicer to each other and give more credit to others. And don't assume that they're mean until, you know, they're actually mean. It's easy to demonize people. You're usually wrong about it. People are nicer than you think gave people more credit I couldn't agree more and I want to thank you not just for all the crazy innovations you've come up with and your constant flow of ideas, but that you choose to spread that idea which is very vulnerable but it's very honest and it resonates with me and I believe it I believe it's true too so thank you and all you assholes out there be nice bitch. All right. Thank you everybody. Thank you, Elon thank you Goodnight, everybody.